---
title: Week 2 schedule
layout: page
---



Seminar sessions are held in House A. AM seminars begin at 9:00 a.m., PM sessions begin at 2:00 p.m., and bonus sessions ("Scripting the HMT") begin at 5:00.



## Mon., July 10



**AM session**:  Machines and scholarship:  what is a digital edition? what authority does it have?

Reading assignment:

-   Matthew Jockers, *Macronanalysis*, chapters 1 and 2 (emailed).
-   [Interview with Franco Moretti](https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/the-digital-in-the-humanities-an-interview-with-franco-moretti/) in the LA Review of Books
-    Helen Dewitt, *The Last Samurai* (selection emailed)

**Team project**:  Validating text editing


**PM session**:  ὑπὲρ μόρον: Iliad 20 and the poetics of multiformity

Reading assignment in advance of session: (Re)read *Iliad* 20 in English, Dutch or Greek.

**Bonus session**: building a search and retrieval engine for citable texts.

## Tues., July 11

**AM session**:  Latent patterns in texts

Reading:

-   Matthew Jockers, *Macronanalysis*, chapter 8  (emailed).

**Team project**:  Continue editing and validating.

**PM session**:  Scholia reading.

Reading assignment:   Each team should identify one question they want to ask about a scholion.  We will collectively read the scholion.



**Bonus session**:    overview of the HMT digital archive


## Wed., July 12

**AM session**:   Writing with markdown

Assignment in advance of session:

-   One historian's perspective on  [writing with markdown](http://benschmidt.org/2014/09/05/markdown-historical-writing-and-killer-apps/)
-   [a 60-second intro to markdown](http://commonmark.org/help/).  Use the *leftmost column* of examples for HMT writing.


**Team project**:  prepare first draft of presentation

**PM session**:  Formulating and developing research questions about a multitext

**Bonus session**: workshop sesion.  Scripting your research question?

## Thurs., July 13

**AM session**:  Individual team consultations on projects + meetings with groups by institution to plan work beyond summer, 2017.

- 9:00  Team 3
- 9:20  Team 10
- 9:40  Team 11
- 10:00 All Leiden University
- 10:20 All Holy Cross
- 10:40 Furman, Trinity, Washington

**Team project**:  Rehearse oral presentation

**PM session**:  Individual team rehearsals of oral presentations.

2:00 Team 3
2:30 Team 10
3:00 Team 11
3:30 Associate faculty


**Bonus session**:  workshop session.  Reviewing scripting for oral presentations.

## Fri., July 14

(Happy Bastille Day)

**AM session**:  Presentations.

**PM session**:  Past perspectives and future prospects for the HMT project.


**Closing dinner**.
